Hi everybody, welcome to the Data Science Hangout. If you're joining for the first time,
I'm Rachel. It's great to meet you. I'm calling in from Nashville today, so I have a different
background behind me. If this is your first Hangout, this is an open space for the whole
data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions you're
facing, and what's going on in the world of data science. So we want this to be a space
where everybody can participate and we can hear from everyone. So there's three ways
that you can ask questions. You can jump in live, and raising your hand on Zoom works
well for this. You could put questions in the Zoom chat. Just put a little star next
to your question if you want me to read it, or else I'll just call on you to jump in the
conversation too. And then we also have a Slido link that Tyler will share in just
a second, where you can ask questions anonymously too. Just want to reiterate, we love to hear
from everyone, no matter your level of experience or area of work. And with all that, I'm so
happy to be joined by my co-host for today, Daren Eiri. Daren is Director of Data Science
at Arrowhead General Insurance Agency. And Daren, I'd love to kick things off with having
you introduce yourself and maybe share a bit about your role and the work that you
do.
Sure. So thanks for having me today. So I lead the data science team at Arrowhead General
Insurance. Arrowhead is one of several subsidiaries within our parent organization, Brown and
Brown Insurance. And we're kind of set up as like a shared service within the organization.
So we're very decentralized, and not every subsidiary within Brown and Brown has their
own data science team looking at data. Sometimes they haven't even looked at their data, right?
So our team is there to provide support for those types of needs. It's not always something
where we're building a predictive model. Most of the time, it's just trying to find value
in the data that they already have and what their data is, what the data actually looks
like. So sometimes we'll try to find business value in that data, whether it's trying to
improve their underwriting functions. Sometimes we'll try to look for ways to price insurance
products. But in other cases, sometimes it's just looking at the data and trying to understand
how to affect the bottom line. So that's kind of high level.
That's great. How does that engagement usually work? Or how do you get in touch with the
teams or work together with them?
Yeah, so everything is budgeted, of course. So when we are planning for our budget for
next year, which usually is late summer, we make an email list of anyone who's interested
in doing things related to data science and analytics. And we have kind of like a menu,
so to speak, of like, here's what we've done, and here's what we're capable of. Are these
things that you're interested in doing? And so that will get sent out to the other subsidiaries
within our organization, and they'll reach out to us. And then we'll have initial calls
with them and try to understand what their actual problem is.
Sometimes it's, they jump straight to, I want to have a machine learning model. I want deep
learning to do something cool, right? And that's not always the case. Sometimes you
just start off simple, just looking at the data itself and trying to understand what
the problem is and building a solution for that problem versus building that shiny object
that they think that they want, but they really don't.
I imagine that takes some good communication skills, too.
Yeah, and sometimes it's setting expectations. You always want to be clear, you know, what,
whatever you're building, what it's going to be capable of doing and what its limitations
are. I think we're pretty lucky within our organization. Not many people that I work
with, they all have a pretty good idea of what we're capable of and the limitations.
And for the most part, they're always pretty invested in the work that we do. So, you know,
having that stakeholder investment, I think we have a much easier time than other organizations,
at least from my experience.
While we wait for questions to come in from everyone here, I'd love to ask you, what is
something that you're really excited about in data science right now or are thinking
about the year ahead?
For me personally, I think there is a lot of opportunity within the insurance industry
to make a difference. You have all these insured tech startups trying to, you know, disrupt
the industry, right? We are a much more formal insurance company. So, you know, I think we're
kind of catching up to using data more efficiently and effectively within the organization. So,
from my perspective, there's a lot of opportunities for the data scientist to build meaningful
products, you know, whatever that might end up being, whether it's a dashboard or a report
that provides some insights to provide business value, a predictive model, right? We have
a lot of opportunity to make a difference. Whereas, you know, I think other spaces, you
know, I think we'll get more competitive. And I think the leadership in our organization
makes it a big priority for us to leverage data and analytics to make sure that we don't
fall behind.
Are you hiring a lot of people right now? Or what does the team look like? How many people
Yeah, so we're a pretty small team. It's so I mentioned, we're a decentralized organization.
So there's other teams within a larger organization that does data analytics, they might be doing
something different. One team is very focused on on Bayesian statistics, for example, and
they have a different client focus. Again, our we're kind of like internal consultants.
So we're helping the businesses internally. There are some other teams that are focused
on helping the business with customers externally. So sorry, I kind of drifted off. What was
the original question?
No, just as you were talking about the work that the team does, and the big opportunity
to make a difference. I was curious if you were hiring across the team.
Yeah, so we're a pretty small organization, or small team. We have right now two other
data scientists on the team. And then we are looking at hiring another data analyst. And
we have an intern starting in the summer as well. So we're hoping to have that person
grow within our team and that position hopefully would end up becoming a full time position
with our team. So hopefully by the end of this year, we'll have four other people.
Awesome. I see there's a few questions coming in on from the chat. Andreas, would you want
to jump in and ask that question?
Sure. I'm always interested in someone who has a title that looks like they're a bit
managerial. How much of it is managerial? How much can you still do hands on technical
stuff? And is it something you can decide for yourself? Or is it sort of dictated to
you?
Mm hmm. Yeah, that's always, I think, a hard thing to balance when you're at a position
where you're managing a team, and you're in a technical space. I think other people have
mentioned that you don't want to lose that technical skill set if you can. I don't do
the day to day, like modeling or analytics and looking at the data specifically. That's
kind of what the rest of the team does. So a lot of my time is spent kind of like doing
project management, product ownership, you know, trying to, you know, remove any road
blocks, and working with the stakeholders to make sure that, you know, we have a, you
know, a path forward. Because that sometimes can happen where, you know, priorities
change, and then the business has a different priority, they want to switch projects. But I
don't know, it's, it's, it's kind of difficult. I was talking to a friend of mine about this
yesterday, and he's spending 50% managing and 50%, you know, doing technical work. And
at that point, he doesn't have time to work on the projects and have that project management
hat on. And, you know, move things forward, because he's still involved in the technical
side of things. So I think you do kind of let go of that technical role, so to speak. So my
time, if it is technical, it's kind of like making things a bit more efficient, or making
sure that our APIs are that we have, because that's how we service our models are running
efficiently. I kind of have a unique perspective, because I have an IT background. So I
used to like systems administration. So we use, you know, RStudio products. So we have
RStudio Workbench, we have RStudio Connect, and then Package Manager. So I manage all that
infrastructure, and the servers that host those products. So making sure that that kind of
stays available. And, you know, I think one of our goals for our team is making sure that
those APIs that we have released as production, that they stay operating during business
hours. So that's kind of a challenge that I have to kind of balance. And sometimes that ends up
with me, you know, working more than I should, I think, and especially during off hours when I
have to do like, you know, the IT maintenance stuff. But it's a need that I think that our team
has to have. And I think that's also one of the things that gets kind of brought up is, you
know, how do you work with IT as a data science team, and I kind of take that responsibility so
that we don't have to rely so heavily on an IT team to do what we need to do technically. So it
makes us more agile to make things work the way we want it to work. Yeah, that's I kind of went
off on a tangent there. But in short, I don't do a lot of coding as much as I'd like to. When I
do, it's kind of just making little tools here and there to make us more efficient as a team, and
to monitor things. But the actual like data analytics, building models, I haven't been
doing that as much.
That's interesting that you say you wear two hats, obviously, or many hats, but are doing the
IT administration as well. Is there a point where you think that would get handed over to IT?
Um, I mean, I think that would always be nice. And, you know, I think, fortunately, we have a
close relationship with the people in IT to make, you know, significant changes if we need to, but
once it's kind of in place, then there's not much else that needs to be done. The things that, you
know, that I can handle are, you know, just day to day things that are really small and doesn't
require a lot of effort. So once everything's working in place, and it's not too much of a
responsibility, but if something isn't working, then of course, that's kind of when you know,
everything is put off to the side. And that's when you have to work with IT to understand like what
the problem is, and it's a networking issue. You know, is it something on the, you know, the other
side where the business, the subsidiary, the other company that we're working with, if their calls
aren't coming in correctly, as we were expecting it to, making sure that there's nothing on their
end that's a problem. Yeah, it's kind of kind of a mixture of problems that you have to deal with.
I see Ishwar, you just put a question to the chat a bit earlier, too. Do you want to jump in and ask
that live?
Yep, absolutely. Hey, everyone. I'm Ishwar. I'm a data scientist at Nissan here in the supply chain
manufacturing assembly plant, basically in Tennessee. So as you mentioned, in the discussion
that looking at deep learning, and neural net stuff. So I was just curious if you have, or your
team has ever experimented or try to work on the deep learning or neural nets, at least if not,
you know, in the level of computer vision. I understand in the insurance industry, as I'm
working on several projects, but it doesn't much need to train very high capacity, deep learning
and neural net models. So I was just curious, if you have you see any potential opportunities to
work on those deep learning models that can be applied in into the insurance industry.
Being specific, if you have your team has thought about looking at if any deep learning models
can be utilized to make your project or the project you're working on to make it more robust,
or at least, you know, if it is 98 to make it 99, or near, you know, closer to perfect. So
just kind of to make the point of discussion.
Yeah, that's, that's always a fun question to think about. Short answer is our team does not
do any deep learning. I think in the insurance industry as a whole, yeah, I think there's
opportunities to yeah, I think, you know, I could be wrong. I'm not sure how other insurance
industries are thinking about it. But you know, there's a lot of investment in that, right? It's,
it's kind of you're going into like an R&D focus versus like, developing a product that
could actually be used. And you know, there's a high likelihood of, you know, the business using
it. So so there's certain risks involved with building products that leverage deep learning.
But I think it depends on the application. So
from a very simple perspective, I mean, just being able to read, you know, handwritten documents,
there are scans, there's a lot of scanned documents that are, you know, still being used
within our industry. Usually, it's typed out or something on some form, but there's always
some going to be some handwritten forms and stuff. And so being able to extract that information,
and, and, you know, leverage, you know, handwritten, handwriting recognition,
for obtaining that data, that text, and putting it into a structured format,
and that's always going to be a common application that is going to be needed in the insurance
industry. Although I think now that there's, there's so much of that available, like, in any,
you know, industry, that you can just buy something off the shelf, and you don't have to have a data
science team dedicated to solving that problem. Same thing with like images. And if you're looking
at, you know, trying to process claims much more quickly and efficiently, right, like if you take
pictures of your car, because you got into a car accident, you want to estimate the damage of that
claim, you know, sooner than later, right? You don't have to send a field agent out to
inspect the car and look at it, you can just take pictures. So that's something that could also be
done. I don't know anyone that's, I mean, I'm sure there are people that are looking at doing that.
I don't know if there's companies that are doing that in production, and like you have customers
sending in their claims that way. I haven't had a car accident in a while. But, you know, that's
something that I can see being done as well. Have you thought of the NLP in the team? I don't know
if you have any models running on the NLPs for the, as you mentioned about text analytics or
understanding the claims and so on. Is there, what type of model that are right now in production,
specifically built by your team? Is that focused on NLP and internet, some kind of
computer vision involved on it? Yeah, so we haven't done anything related to computer vision,
but we have done projects related to NLP. So we've used spaCy, for example, to extract,
you know, more meaningful information from bodies of text to make, you know,
more efficient decisions. But I wouldn't say it's like, it's not deep learning,
it's still within that machine learning space. Yeah. Okay. Yep. Thanks.
Thanks, Darren. Thanks for the questions, too. Just a reminder, if anyone wants to ask anything
anonymously, too, you can put it through on Slido, or just raise your hand and jump in.
But I wanted to ask you, Darren, when you were mentioning APIs and using APIs in production,
would you be able to share a bit more about what that looks like? And what? Yeah, so I think one
Yeah, so I think one of the common problems that the businesses that we work with,
from an underwriting function, is knowing if you have, you know, 30 applications to go through,
you know, these are insurance applications. And as an underwriter, you have to make decision about
which ones to go through. And if you only have, you know, time to go through 10 of them,
how are you going to prioritize that? So we have built an API that predicts the likelihood of,
you know, that submission winning with our company. And so we'll give a grade out for that
submission. And so if you have like a list of 30 submissions, each one has a grade, so A, B, C, D,
F, or whatever. And that way, the underwriter can, you know, order those rank from A's to B's
and focus on those first. And so our API basically takes data, you know, the core, you know, data
inputs of that submission feeds it into our server. And then we send a response back with
that predicted grade. So that's kind of like a common example that we like to use when we're
talking about APIs and how we use that within our team. That's great. Thank you.
I see there's a question that just came through on Slido. And it was, do you think that insurance
companies are underrated or misunderstood regarding how innovative they are?
I think so. Yeah. When I joined this company two years ago, you know, I was just looking
for a new opportunity and I was working with a recruiter and he told me about this position.
I was like, oh, insurance, like that sounds kind of boring. And all I knew about insurance at the
time was that I was paying for it and it's costing me a lot of money. And I really understand the
need and the business need of insurance and how it works. And also how wide ranging insurance is
when you think about it, like everything in business needs insurance, right? Because the
business wants to minimize the risk and, you know, hand it off to somebody else by paying
small amounts, you know, on a monthly or annual basis. So at the opportunities that I think
we have on our team are so significant because our company touches a wide range of products.
You know, when you think of insurance, it's like auto health, home insurance, you know,
just standard stuff. But there's insurance products for liability for dentists or lawyers,
bookstores have their own special insurance, right? Even when you're looking at professional
liability insurance, there's different liability insurance for different professions and how you
apply and solve their problems for their data. It's so unique. So, yeah, I think it's pretty
underrated just because it just sounds boring. But when you go into it and you kind of delve
into the problems a bit more, then they're all very unique and they all have different problems
that they're trying to solve. And again, as I mentioned, I think the insurance industry as
a whole still kind of trying to catch up to use and leverage their data. And so it provides us
with a unique opportunity for us to make a big impact. What's the most exciting
opportunity you think or a problem that you're helping the team solve that you're most excited
about? I don't know if there's anything specific. We've had a lot of cool projects that we've worked
on. You know, part of that is related to using NLP. It was kind of the first time we were able
to apply that type of modeling and approach to solve a problem. A lot of our problems are
kind of focused more on just basic statistical methods. We don't do anything really complex
because it doesn't require more complex methods. We always look at more advanced machine learning
models when we're assessing the predictive ability of the work that we do. But it doesn't
compare to the explainability and the ease of use and maintenance of using regular regressions.
We compare those types of models to something that's more
machine learning focused and they perform just as well.
Well, thank you. I see Alex, you just asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
I was always curious about this. In insurance, it seems like data science and actuarial science
could be like doing almost similar things. And so I'm kind of curious what it's like
at an actual insurance company. So I was wondering if you could comment on that.
Yeah, so our team is organized so we have a data science side and an actuarial science side. So
both teams report to the same person, but they're separate groups and they work on different
problems. The actuarial team looks more specifically at the insurance products and
whether they're meeting their profitability targets, whether they're looking at do we need
to make changes in the rate at which they charge the product to make sure that they're meeting
their profitability goals. So they're looking more specifically at claims and what types of
claims are leading to large losses and how that affects the pricing of those lines of business
to make appropriate changes to the final price of it. We don't really
delve too deeply into the insurance specific problem set. It's more just operating as a
business. How can we make better business decisions? We don't know enough about insurance
from an actuarial perspective to kind of make those types of decisions. So that's kind of how
we make that distinction on our organization. If I can ask another question, I'm kind of curious
do you see any actuaries that want to do more data science work or do you see data scientists
that want to do actuary work like anecdotally? What do you tend to see if any of that happens?
Yeah, I think that depends on the individual person and kind of what they've been exposed to.
I've had some data scientists or I've had like a data scientist position open
with people who have some actuarial experience and they apply or want to change from actuarial
to a data scientist position because they care more about like the data and the modeling
versus I guess the specific problem space of just insurance and pricing. And they also
really like the coding aspect of it. Although that's not to say that with an
actuary you can still code and stuff, right? I think it's just you're more into it when you're
in the data science space, especially if you're building out APIs and pipelines
to handle data. I think there's that love of just working with data that I think
attracts some people to the data science side versus the actuarial side. You're really
focused in just insurance. The other way around, I haven't seen that as much,
where you have someone interested in data science, someone's moved to the actuarial side.
I think also with the actuaries, they have other things that they have to be mindful of,
right? They have exams that they have to take while they're working, which takes several years.
So if you're looking from a professional development background,
if you haven't worked or done any programming, that takes a lot of significant effort
initially, especially if you're coming from a traditional Excel background.
So being able to try to do your work while also learning how to code and take those exams,
that's really hard. So that takes a lot of time and commitment.
Thanks, Darren. I see, Ethan, you put a question into the chat as well, if you want to jump in.
Yeah. Hi, Darren. Nice to meet you. I just want to check, because we talk about
machine learning models and selecting which models to use. I was wondering if there's a
factor of interpretability or explainability you would need to consider when choosing model
when you're working in insurance. Because I know, for example, financial industry is
quite heavily regulated in terms of you need to explain what the model is doing.
So you can't just throw down a box model if it comes to deciding what premium people are paying
or what the interest rate that they need to be paying. And also, probably not just regulation,
but also from an ethics standpoint, do you need to understand is there any particular subgroups that
are being prized or being predicted differently than the other?
Yeah. So those are two really good questions. So with the interpretability and how it relates to
regulation, that hasn't something we've run into. When I think of interpretability, it's more
on the business stakeholder side and having them understand that the models that we're building,
how it works. If we're taking in four inputs for the model that we're building to make a decision
on something, how does a change in one of those inputs affect the output? So that makes it really
straightforward when it's something like some type of regression versus some more machine
learning approach. Although there are approaches now I think that are within the machine learning
space where you can make things a bit more interpretable, I think it's just easier for us
on our end to just focus on the interpretability from those regression models. So yeah, it's really
just about being able to communicate to the stakeholders how those models work, what can
they expect, what are the limitations of the model, and being able to do that effectively.
With the ethics side of things, that's something that's always been on my mind. Unfortunately,
I don't think we've run into that type of problem. Making sure that we use data responsibly,
that whatever data that we're using for the model isn't going to create some sort of bias against
any type of groups, or applying data features to something that might inadvertently cause
some problems down the road. That's something that you always want to try to avoid.
So yeah, from an ethics standpoint, that hasn't been something we've explored too deeply,
but it's something that's always on my mind when we're building something.
That's really interesting.
Federica, I see you have your hand raised. Do you want to jump in?
Hello. So, nice to meet you all. So I'd like to jump in on this discussion because I am an
attorney, so that's why I wanted to ask a question about what type of area you cover
within the attorney department. What type of area are you covering in the
attorney department? So you do, maybe I missed the first part. So you do,
there's life insurances, there's more life insurances, there are, I don't know, pensions,
government, education, that's because attorney covers quite a wide area, because we are
kind of, I won't say analysts, because it sounds like a bad word, but we do research,
we do analyze things, we do government, regulatory standards, it depends by your area. So
we may be able to code and take care of, I don't know, like shiny apps and websites.
So there's a specialization, so we are statistician and then we are specialized
in a particular area, which contains some areas, other sub-areas. I wanted to say,
to ask you, which area are you covering, so your company is covering at the moment?
Yeah, so from the actual standpoint, our lines of business typically focus on property and
casualty, so we don't, we're not focused on like health insurance, that type of focus.
But in terms of the property and casualty side, our organization kind of, at least for what we
focus on, is really niche business types, so that can range from just like small restaurants and
small businesses, to workers comp, I mentioned liability insurance, there's also some products
related to schools and, you know, property and liability insurance for education. It kind of
ranges, so each actuary I think kind of has like a specific focus, so they're not like spread too
thin. So one of them I know that focuses more on personal property type lines, but I wouldn't be
able to say much more than that, other than that they do have areas of focus. Yeah, I hope that
answers your question. Yes, sure, thank you. Thank you, and I see there's also an anonymous question
that said, you've piqued my interest with the insurance for bookstores, what data factors,
what data factors into the rates they receive? So that, I don't know, I know that we have insurance
products focused on bookstores, but that's not something that we've worked with directly
as a team, so I would be interested as well, I mean there's lines related to like truckers,
and there's other really like niche insurance products that we work on, but we don't work on
all lines. There hasn't been, I guess, a need, but those would be really interesting to work on.
Something you just said right there got me thinking, like do you also do,
does your team do data science to figure out what are other data products you could create,
or like niche areas to focus on? Oh, I think, so we haven't gotten to that point where we're like
branching out into a new type of insurance product, but our team does look at ways where we
can target more effectively, of course, right, so if we have a set of, you know, customers that do
really well with these types of products, how can we more effectively target them or increase that
range of customers to improve the business? That's, you know, that's something that I think
is pretty common, but to develop a different type of insurance product that we haven't been doing
before, that would be a new type of thing we would work on. I get to ask you a lot of questions until
someone jumps in here, so feel free to raise your hand, put it in Zoom, or use Slido too,
but something I've been curious about with understanding insurance data and how you
like decide who is a good customer for you, okay, a personal example, but
like I live on a one-way street where people like always back up down the street, and they will hit
my car, so I've gotten a hit twice within the past year, but it's like I'm not the one driving
and getting in an accident, so eventually will that be seen as a customer, would I be seen as
a customer you don't want to have because of that street? You know what I mean, like accidents
versus like when a car is parked versus when somebody's driving. So we actually don't get too
involved in that type of data, yeah, it's, we have worked with claims data,
but in terms of like looking at data to see what types of accidents there are and trying
to reduce those or minimize those, that's not something that we've looked at too closely.
One of the projects that we worked on is related to subrogation or kind of like the ability to
pursue legally money that they're owed because it wasn't at the insurer's fault,
it was somebody else's fault. So being able to know the likelihood of subrogation opportunities
due to an accident, you know, that's something that we have done. So kind of just looking at
the claims data itself is always really interesting when you're kind of researching
those problems because you're looking at like how the accident happened and
you always see these really interesting stories, kind of like how you describe where, you know,
someone did something really ridiculous and it leads to an accident that you don't want happening.
Yeah, I always think it's really interesting to think of the people and the data and like
the stories behind the data. Yeah, yeah, and that kind of, you know, that brings up a good point too
because everything that you're working with, there's people behind the data and it just kind
of changes your perspective a bit about how you're using that information and making sure it's being
used responsibly. Yeah. Definitely. I see Santiago, you asked a question in the chat
if you want to jump in. Sure. Hey, Rachel. Hey, Darren. You mentioned working with
internal stakeholders and how you highlight interpretability as one of those, as a factor,
I guess, in deciding the types of solutions you and the team build. I had a general question about
what else do you do to help ensure that your ideas or MVPs or a particular solution you're
working on are well received by your internal customers? And then is there a particular
framework you follow? For example, I've started to read about product lifecycle management,
but applied to data investments or like design principles, but for data products. So just
curious to see what you're doing. Yeah, that's definitely something that's always on my mind
about how to more effectively communicate to stakeholders and make sure that they're aware of,
you know, what we're building and that they're completely invested in what we're building.
So kind of in that agile mindset, being able to frequently meet with those business stakeholders
is important. You know, whenever you're making major decisions or have questions about something,
making sure that they're available to answer those questions. We have a playbook,
data science playbook for building out models when we are building models.
And that generally follows a path of, you know, initial kickoff, you know, trying to understand
what the business problem is. If we do build out a solution, what is it going to look like?
I think and sometimes they're like, okay, an API. Yeah. But they don't realize like what that takes
to integrate an API, because you're going to need software engineers to implement that
and process that data more effectively. However, they're going to process it and display that
information. And also making sure that it's part of their business workflow. So if they're adding
this new feature, how is the business going to use it and continue using it so it's not just
something where they implement and it kind of gets left in the dark. So, you know, we do try to
follow this playbook to make sure that, you know, we follow the steps that were
to make us as successful as we can. That doesn't always happen, but we try our best.
So in terms of making sure that they're on board,
before we can start building the model, you know, we just talk about their data and what it looks
like. Because we have to do that anyways. And it's kind of a service to them because they probably
haven't looked at the data at that grand of a scale. You know, they're kind of seeing things
quarter to quarter, year to year. But we'll take a whole look at the data and provide them with
what we're seeing and the perspective that we're seeing. Especially because we don't have that,
you know, expertise in their business. And get their input. And we always ask for their hypotheses.
And what they think will lead to, you know, what we're trying to predict.
And that kind of helps us understand what their problem is. And include their own
ideas into the project as well. And I think that causes, that results in some investment and some
ownership on their side too. Because they're kind of partnered with us to build whatever we're
building for them. And when we have the model built out and, you know, we evaluate it and we
see like the accuracy, you know, we provide them with several examples. And the variation
of that data. To kind of show the limitations of what that, you know, final product will look like.
And usually they have a sense, like, okay, that makes sense. Like, I understand,
like, based on these inputs why you would predict that. And I think that helps out a lot too.
When you're spending the time to walk them through that process and they see it working.
And what the result ends up being. And I think that really helps with
getting them on board. I hope that answers your question.
Yeah, that was really great. It seems obvious in hindsight. But having a playbook
seems tremendously useful. So you're not ad hoc, like the wild west, just doing something
different every time. Yeah. And then sometimes, like, you might forget small little details. So
at least you have something to reference to when you have a playbook that works.
Got it. Thank you so much.
It sounds like you are so thoughtful in your approach to working with the business as well.
Like, having the data science menu and then the playbook. And I'm curious where you learned that?
Or how we all can do that as well? Well, to be fair, that data science menu
is actually from my boss. And he kind of came up with that idea. The playbook was kind of,
it came out out of necessity. Because I forget things. So I mentioned, like, you want to make
sure that when you do certain projects, you don't forget things. And I tend to forget things. So I
always write things down. And having this playbook also kind of provides a visual of, here's what
we're going to do with you. And this is what the steps look like. And so that kind of lays out the
land for them, when we work with them. It's like a flowchart, basically. Just so they can see the
complete picture. Versus just talking about it and being kind of vague. And at least you have
some documentation that way, too. So I think a lot of it just comes out of, you know, as I
joined this team, you know, finding the problems that you encounter and finding ways to solve
those problems as they come up. So you don't just kind of, I don't know. I think you want to be
reactive to those problems, right? And find solutions to that. So that the next time it
happens, it works better, obviously. So I'm very mindful of, like, if something's not working, how
are we going to be able to fix it, so it doesn't happen again? So we do, our team does do, like,
retros every two weeks, just like a software engineering team, for when things don't work well
and ways we can improve the team. We kind of address those pretty frequently. And there's a
time and space for that to happen, too. Versus, you know, just as they come up. Like, I think having
that dedicated time really helps. Thank you. That's really helpful. I see there's quite a few
other questions in the chat. Someone put in one. I think it might be your initials, RBMV. But if
you want to jump in. Yeah. Yeah, sorry. I forgot to change it. Oh, no worries. Hi, Robert.
Hi. So when you mentioned the actuarial team and your team sort of, you know, being on two sides of
a house with a similar supervisor, it reminded me a bit of my team, where we're a data science team
within a public health department. So, you know, obviously, epidemiologists model and write code.
We also can model and write code. And so carving out the space of our work and the space of their
work can sometimes be tricky. So I'm curious, do you work with that team and build products for
them? Are you, you know, leveraging similar infrastructure? Like, how do you manage the
relationship there when, like, often you could end up working on similar bodies of work?
You know, from my perspective, like, we end up doing a lot of technical stuff,
and more of the software engineering type things. And I'm curious if there's a
similar kind of relationship there. Any sort of takeaways from that relationship,
sort of best practices for working well? I'm not sure if I can say anything about
best practices, but it's similar to your approach, Robert, where we kind of, our team
focuses more on the technical, like, statistical software engineering type approach, whereas the
actuaries, again, they're really focused on the insurance and the insurance products.
So there's a lot of things in insurance that I don't know. So many things that are very technical
in the insurance side that our team, you know, isn't as familiar with. So we lean on them for,
you know, understanding the data sometimes. Like, you know, what does this data point mean?
Like, what does this line of business mean? And can you provide some business context on
what this data looks like? I have no idea. I don't have a lot of information about, like,
rate changing and how to make things profitable. Like, I have, I can use the words, right? But
anything else than that, like, I don't know much. So that's how we work with the actuaries.
But for the actuaries, you know, they don't always have the data that they need to work
efficiently and effectively. So sometimes our team does step in to help, you know, clean that data
when it's coming from different data sources. You know, that's a big challenge for them right now,
where, you know, they're getting data from the insurance carriers, and it's, like, in these
Excel files. And, you know, when you're doing view lookups and pivot tables, you can only do that so
much before it gets a little bit too much to handle in Excel. And so you need to provide some
better framework for that and some infrastructure. So our team does kind of help out with that effort
too. Yeah, we're also trying to get them on board using our tools, which can be a challenge.
Sometimes there's, like, a bit of a tool disparaging kind of gap that we're trying to
mount. But yeah, the difficult thing I find is figuring out how to not be too enmeshed.
I don't know if you have any ideas about how to ensure that the teams don't get too enmeshed
sometimes. Maybe just, like, overlapping projects. Yeah, or just you end up being kind of like the,
like, software and, like, the tech support for the product, you know, like, in a weird kind of way,
where you're trying to maintain some agency over direction while also trying to help people kind
of meet challenges that are a bit too much for them. Yeah, I think it helps if you can to have,
like, someone in that support role for them, where their role specifically is to support them,
so you can kind of focus on the things that you want to focus on. You know, that's kind of where
we're at as well, where we don't want the data scientist time on our team to focus on cleaning
the data for the actuaries. So we have a role that's available, so that's their specific
responsibility, is providing kind of like that data engineering role, basically. You know,
in some organizations, we have data engineers that do all the data cleaning and preparation
before the data scientists actually do the work. And so I think from that example alone,
I'm not sure if that would help, if you have another position to open up to provide that
support, which is hard to ask, I think, you know, right? You know, just making a position available
for that budget, it's really difficult. Yeah, well, I mean, usually people think I created a
data science item to hire someone, so they're gonna, they'll figure it out. So I think that's
been our challenge, too, is advocating for data engineering, so. Yeah, yeah. Great, thanks.
Thank you. Javier, I see you have your hand raised.
Thanks, Rachel. Yeah, I just had a quick question for Robert, if you don't mind. Robert,
do you have any platforms or infrastructure to deploy like a Shiny app or something like that?
You mean like using Connect or something like that? Yeah, Connect or Easy2 or something like,
is that something you guys have working right now? We have Connect working on our network.
Yeah. Sort of like behind a firewall. And then we have Shiny apps that is for externally facing
stuff. Yeah. We're gonna work toward Connect outside the network. Oh, nice. Or a combination
of like a GitHub Action self-hosted runner. But yeah, it's tricky with the on and off network.
We're hybrid, but mostly on-prem, so it's challenging. I just wanted to bring up an idea.
I haven't built it yet for my own company, but just on Monday, I had a demo of R&R Studio for
our finance and FP&A team. And they're sort of all over the world, so slightly different functions.
But none of them were familiar with R at all. And they had heard of Python, but I mean, they're like
living and breathing in Excel and Google Sheets. And I built, like, I don't know what the right
solution is, but I built for them a tutorial of like how to install RStudio, how to install R,
an intro to dplyr, an intro to tidier, like really basic stuff. And I actually don't, I think it was
too much for them. Because immediately after, I got like four requests the next two weeks to meet
with, you know, different individuals to see if I could help build something for them.
And I've seen this online, but I'm almost thinking I need to build a shiny app that is just like a
drag and drop thing. It's got a file upload. They can upload their Excel file. I mean, you know,
it shows all the fields. They can drag and drop and then export it.
Yeah, I think someone already made that, actually.
Yeah, I know I've seen it. I just haven't dove too into it.
The squeeze package, is that what it is?
I know that's the one for visualization.
That's the built-in one for RStudio. But I think that there's a shiny app that does that. You can
just hook it into a data source and kind of drop stuff. I've thought about that too as like a way
to, because we just did a training with like 180 people and now I'm getting a lot of emails about
how they want Workbench. And I'm like, I know. So I'm trying to figure out how to scale infrastructure
for them. But yeah.
It's the processing time. Like they were trying to just pivot data long and do a calculation off
of it. And Excel was bombing out. Google Sheets was bombing out. It's like, just run this through
R and it would take five seconds. Anyway, sorry.
If you find that, feel free to share it in the chat too. For some reason, I was picturing the
drag and drop one of squeeze or however you say that package. But it sounds like it's something
else. But that sounds great. I see there are other questions too. One on Slido that came through
anonymously, which was, Darren, what is the size of datasets that insurance companies analyze and
collect? Descriptors is okay too. Big, small, very big, perfectly fine. Just curious.
So in terms of the datasets we work with, we can work everything within memory on our servers.
So we don't have to use like Spark or some online Jupyter notebook with lots of compute resources.
So our problems aren't big data problems. But that's not to say that within the insurance
industry, like that doesn't exist. Because it does. It's just that the data that we work with,
it's pretty structured. And we just haven't had the need to leverage those types of tools.
But everything that we're doing is in our studio workbench in the cloud. So it's not like it's on
our laptops with 16 gigabytes of memory. So we do have some additional capabilities on the cloud
to handle everything in memory. Darren, I'm just going to chime in here as the other insurance data
scientist, so I can give an alternative view. So like Darren, you could have extremely small
datasets of insurance that you can operate on your laptop without a server. Or you could have
very detailed telematics data, where you're talking about tens of billions of records,
right? So our data can get quite large, depending the type of company and the business that you're
operating in. 10 billion. Wow. Yeah, we don't work with any IoT type of data.
But it's a big thing now in insurance, for auto especially. Sure. Serge, I see you asked a question
in the chat, if you want to ask that live. Yeah, thanks. Over, say, a decade, there have been
trends related to changing premiums, based on behaviors that the insured can control.
Two examples I've listed. One would be smoking versus non-smoking. If you don't smoke,
at least in the United States, you can pay a lower insurance premium. So that's a motivator for
people to change their behaviors. The other one is safe driving. And there are these little
monitors you can put in your car. And in exchange for giving up a little bit of privacy, you might
be able to get lower premiums. Two others that I'm particularly interested in are
related to the environment. One is the idea that if you clear some space around your home in a
western forest, for example, you might be able to pay lower fire insurance premiums. Or if you live
near a coast and there's an increasing likelihood of storms, say, in the southeast of the United
States, you might be able to pay less sort of flood insurance if you build your house on stilts
or something like that. This is kind of more of an insurance question than a science question,
insurance question than a science question, although the data science part comes in terms
probably of how do you price these things differently. And a question is, are there
other kind of examples in insurance and property and casualty insurance that you can think of where
there are emerging differentiators between classes based on a user's behavior that they
in theory can control? Yeah, that's a really interesting question. I don't have
any thoughts to that. Maybe Russ, if you work with anything on your end that you can think of,
but I like the idea of if you're controlling for your yard and clearing out that area so that
there's less plants around your property, then that should theoretically reduce the risk of fire
is happening. But I think the problem with that is you have to make sure that you get recent
satellite imagery. So that's a technology hurdle, but maybe that's something that will come over
time. But Russ, did you want to take over? Yeah. I mean, Serge, you nailed a couple of them,
right? Although I would highly doubt any of those characteristics really affect how much you're
paying. It's more on the eligibility side. I've worked in the past on a lot of computer
vision models where you're using satellite and drone data for primarily commercial properties,
but even in residential, your roof condition, the type of roof you put on your house is going to be
very important too. Those are used in pricing and personal insurance for your homeowners, right?
You know, I built a rubbish model, essentially looking at what's surrounding a business,
right? If there's a bunch of trash, you know, maybe it's not a risk we'd like to ensure.
Brush, like you said, brush tree overhang is really important, right? You could have trees
fall on your house, but also it's a bigger fire risk, like you mentioned. Something you can't
really control is how close you are to other buildings and structures, right? An adjacent
structure catches fire, you're at a larger fire risk. Rachel, not exactly what you mentioned
earlier, but density to other autos, right? You can generally look at traffic patterns around,
you know, a particular zip or sub zips area, right? And a lot of, you know, I'm sure Progressive
and Allstate have baked that into their geospatial pricing. To date, they're pretty slick.
But I think in terms of like other behavioral type characteristics, you should be aware,
like insurance companies are getting very slick on how you're performing on their other lines of
business that you may have, right? So you're getting a homeowner's quote, and you have an
auto policy with them, they can use the characteristics from your prior auto experience
to price your homeowners, right? If you have, Rachel, unfortunately, if your car is being
backed up into a lot, that could signify you're not as good of a homeowner's or renter's risk,
right? So just be wary of that kind of stuff. Like people are starting to map, you know,
locate their customers across the different lines of business and marry up that data.
Interesting. Yeah, the rotary near my house isn't good for insurance prices either.
You must be from the Northeast. I call it a roundabout in the Midwest.
Yeah, roundabout, rotary.
Nobody calls it a traffic circle.
I know we're a little bit over. Darren, you said you had a few minutes. Is it okay if we go through
a few other questions? Okay. Awesome. Andreas, are you still on?
Yes. Yes.
You want to ask your question?
Sure. I'm a bit hesitant because it's not a real data science question, just to pique my own
curiosity, but I work in infectious diseases, and I've known that even pre-COVID, there were some
small insurance companies that tried to price insurances to protect against
various infectious disease threats. And I'm just curious if now with COVID, that has become a big
topic everywhere in the insurance company, or is it still a very niche one that only a few are
pursuing? Because what I've heard talking to those people is a real hard thing is to get historic
data to actually price these things properly. Yeah, I don't have much to comment on that,
but I think it's still an issue of concern because it's still a risk that exists. You don't
know what this end of the year is going to look like. So making sure that the insurers that we
have business with right now, that they're going to continue operating and paying for their
premiums, that's still something that we would like to happen. So I think it's still something
that the insurance industry is still aware of. It's just not as focused on now because
everyone's kind of moved on to something else. But I think how that ends up depends on how
the situation with COVID is by fall and winter.
I see Ishwar had a great question. I think he had to drop at the top of the hour,
so I just want to read it. But it was, I have seen a lot of time that the models are built
and deployed, but mostly they go unused by the business customers. How do you handle that
situation on training customers or creating the business use? Use case with the model,
not only in the beginning of the project, but after deployment?
Yeah, I think follow up is really important and kind of setting that expectation ahead of time.
You know, I think we're not alone in that challenge. So I definitely set time aside
intentionally and say, okay, we have this release and so I will follow up with you,
you know, a month from now and then, you know, create those intervals a little bit longer over
time just to make sure that they're getting the value out of it. Because sometimes they just end
up having a different priority and they can kind of lose focus on it. So making sure that, you know,
we keep in touch with the stakeholders and just chat with them, how things are going.
Sometimes that leads into like other projects that they might have, that they want to work on.
And so that leads to new things that our team can help out with. So I think as long as you're,
you know, staying in touch with the business side and communicating with them
throughout the whole process, and that whole process includes, you know,
post-deployment, I think it's really critical.
For sure. And I see, Jenny, you just asked a question in the chat too around the LinkedIn
group. You want to jump in? Oh, hi. I just was wondering, Darren, if you'd be willing to
post a description of the data science menu and the playbook that you talked about earlier.
I failed to take notes, but yeah, these two things are going to become increasingly relevant
for me as our team is going to be incorporated more into the product team at my company.
So, you know, it's one thing for us to talk about projects amongst ourselves, but then,
yeah, having some kind of formal way to interact with the product team would be super helpful.
So if you're willing to do that. You mean on the LinkedIn group?
Yes, yeah. Yeah, I can provide an example.
Basically, it's like a template almost of how we do it, but it's basically an email for that menu
of like, hey, here's what we do. And then this is the projects that we worked on. But it's very
high level. So it's not like here's everything that we worked on and every single detail about
it. So it's just kind of to get their attention. And then that playbook, yeah, I think that's not
applicable to our specific role in our company. It's kind of just like a general data science
playbook. So it has some basic stuff to it. So I can I can share that with the group on LinkedIn.
Okay, great. Thank you.
Perfect. And I just put the LinkedIn group in the chat, too, if anybody isn't part of that.
Yeah. And feel free to keep discussions going there as well. You don't have to wait for me
to share the summary of the week. You can start your own discussions there, too.
One last question I want to ask you, Darren, is if there are specific resources or maybe books
or podcasts that you'd recommend to us all?
Oh, I don't have time for podcasts and I don't commute anymore. So I haven't been listening to
anything. For me, I think a recent book I read was The Making of a Manager by Julia So.
She, I think, worked at Facebook as a UX designer and then she eventually was really early on in
Facebook's time. And then she's kind of, you know, put in this position of becoming a manager and
how do you lead a team when you haven't done that before? And so I've read it once a long
time ago and I'm kind of going through it again just to remind myself of things I should be aware
of. And it's good to kind of review every now and then to just to kind of make sure that I'm
just for new ideas and stuff. I think for me, being a leader of a team,
you know, it's always like, what does that look like? And what kind of leader do you want to be?
And how do you keep people engaged and keep talent too, especially right now, right?
And how to attract talent. Those are all kind of new things for me and things I think about a lot.
So that's been relevant.
That's great. Thank you. I just put the link to that book in the chat too. I'll put it with the
summary on LinkedIn as well. Thank you so much, Darren, for sharing your experience with us and
answering all the questions. And thank you all for all the great questions as well.
Happy to be here. Thank you so much.
Thank you.